# Object-Removal-from-Video
A video inpainting task wherein target object is removed from the video and the background is smoothly recreated.

The project runs on a standard windows command line. The program is run by calling the python script and using an unique project name associated with the project. There are several commands that the user can give to the program at different stages of object removal. All of the possible commands and their specifications are discussed further in the manual. Initially the program takes as input, the path of the input video which is stored locally on the user’s computer with the ‘create’ command. As the program receives this input, a project directory tree is created locally in the project folder by the name of the unique project name. The video is then located on the user’s computer and placed inside a folder in the newly created directory. At this point, the user enters the ‘extract’ command to extract frames from the input video. These extracted frames are also stored in the project directory and are also used to predict a suitable background for the video. After successfully extracting frames from the video, the user enters the third, ‘train’ command and along with it must specify the target object. The user may also specify the method by which the background will be predicted and the model to be used for object detection. As this command runs, all the extracted frames are used in predicting the background, after which an object detection model is used on all of these frames to locate the target object. As the target is located, it is removed by simply replacing the pixels with a zero, and the blank space created as a result of this activity is then filled with pixels from the predicted background. This process is carried out for each of the extracted frames and the output frames are saved in a folder in the project directory. Once, this process is complete, the user can enter the fourth and final command, ‘output_video’ which is used to stitch the output frames together and form a video. The output video is then saved in the directory, where the user may access it.
